The Joe Rogan experience. Lions have one shot at getting injured.
They'd get injured once in their life and then it's over.
Mm.
So how long do you think they last, after an injury like that.
Dead within a couple of weeks, it usually started Def you think?
How do you starve to death? If you can't.
Eat? I think the lion keeps thinking.
You think they have like memories and they're like that Gizelle. That goes up.
No.
I think they hold no grudges. Right?
I think grudges are connected to cognitive function.
Like our ego or our understanding of ourself.
That's what I'm going to get him back. Cause it's like ego.
I don't think animals have an ego. They have, they have a sense of fair though.
Animals have a sense of some animals do at least chimps do. Hmm.
One of the reasons why chimps attack people is because if people give something
to someone else and you don't give it to them,
they have a real sense of fairness. Wow. Yeah.
There's a famous story of this guy who had a pet Chimp.
And then the thing about champs is you can keep them when they're young and then
they get older and it's like a man,
but a man that's five times stronger than you. And like,
why is he going to listen to you? He's not going to listen to you.
So I think he started biting off fingers. It's one of the things that chimps do,
chimps get mad at you. They bite off your finger. Yeah. Just to let you know,
they're the boss. Like they don't give a. If you're injured,
they have no remorse. Right. And they're intelligent. So you have this thing.
That's not a dog. It's not a person.
It's this weird in-between thing. It's an animal, but it's also intelligent.
And so when you do something for someone else,
but you don't do something for them, they get rage, like horrific rage.
So this guy gets rid of this. Chimp brings it to a shelter.
The shelter takes it in and he goes to visit it every year.
And the Chimp goes to see him like, oh my friend, I miss you. I miss you.
Why can't I come home?
But he can't come home ever because he would just take over the house. Right.
Because he's a grown champion. Well,
you don't castrate chimps the way they castrate dogs. Like you,
when you castrate a dog, like everybody it's standard. People think it's good.
Oh, did you get your dog neutered? Yeah, I did. And you're like,
you want your dog to have no testosterone. You want your dog to have no balls,
but then it becomes a different thing. Right? Then it's like tired. And like,
is it like, have you ever seen a dog get snipped?
I had one of my dogs get snipped at when it was five years old.
He was just too aggressive. And so someone talked me into it.
And then when I got him snapped, all of a sudden,
he was just tired all the time. He's lazy. And I realized that, oh,
he didn't have any testosterone anymore. It's all gone, Mike. Wow, look.
So the dog's a different dog now. So you can't do that chimps.
For whatever reason, you can't do that. You can't neuter a Chimp.
So this guy goes to visit the champ and he brings a birthday cake,
happy birthday buddy. And the other chimps that are in cages right next to it.
They're like this mother. Didn't bring me a cake. I can't believe this.
So they figure out a way to get out.
And they got out and they attack the man and they tore him apart.
They tore his face off. They tore his Dick off. They tore his feet off. They,
they bit his fingers off. It's one of the most horrific,
cruel attacks you'll ever hear of because they did it to try to take away
from him.
The things he wants and needs like chimps recognize you need your fingers in
order to do things you need your face in order to see you need your Dick in
order to. So that's the things that go after. They don't,
they don't just try to kill you.
They try to take away what it means to be a human.
So if you try to hide your hands,
they'll pull your hands away from and open them up and bite them off.
Like crazy with rage filled,
look in their eye and they don't communicate with language.
So they only have this sense in their head of what's fair and what's not fair
and what you've done to them. So if you do something that makes them jealous,
they think immediately you've done something bad to them. They don't think that.
No, no. I just gave my friend a cake. You made them feel bad. So it's you,
you made them feel bad. So they'll go right after you. So it's,
it's like a sort of a, it's an interesting study in the way.
Sometimes people look at things like we've all been jealous, right?
You've been jealous of someone.
You see someone who's doing something well and go, oh, I wish I was that guy,
but you don't go attack that person. Right. People recognize,
like it's not his fault that I feel bad that he has this Corvette.
I have to just. I just got to appreciate the guys hustle guys out there,
kicking. All right. I gotta get my together.
But there's a thing that we have initially, especially when they're children,
we feel angry. Like you feel upset. Like you feel, uh,
like you've been shorted. Like someone's oh, why didn't I get that? This is.
He gets at Nitel.
It's a fascinating part of humans.
And then humans as we get older and more sophisticated with language,
but still carry the same child as emotions.
We find reasons to be upset at someone for being successful.
We find reasons eat the rich. You know,
we find re these by these weird little ways that we can justify our
jealousy or our anger or our distain for those who are more
successful than we. So it's like, we're coming up with complicated,
sophisticated ways to justify these primal behaviors,
that chimps exhibit and just violent rage. So this guy,
it's a famous case like this. You can see the pictures.
If you want to see the pictures of the cake guy of the guy who got his face
ripped apart and fingers bitten off. And yeah, I mean he was hospital.
That sounds great. Do you think that this.
Um, folks at home, uh, prepared don't show it on the screen? Cause it's rough,
but Tony needs to see this. So you go give a tramp cake. I'm not doing that.
This is wow. No nose. See how he bit his nose off. Yeah.
Look at his face. Oh. Yeah.
Consciousness said after this happened. Okay. Yeah.
Of course. Look at us. See his right hand and the fingers bitten off.
That's what they do. They bite off your fingers.
That's the Chimp right there to click on the chamber of the right-hand corner.
That's his Chimp.
Come on. What's hot picture.
Oh, what does that picture? I'm surprised he let him keep it as yours. Oh,
that's the guy's face. Jamie. That's what that is.
He's got a trake cause he can't breathe out of his mouth. Yeah. Well,
I don't think that, you know,
chimps exactly know the human anatomy, all that well,
but they know what's important to you. Your face, your fingers. it.
Tore the sky apart.
So if he would've brought pieces of cake and given them to all the chimps and
all the cages.
They would all be happy. Right. But they're also angry that he's there.
That they're captive. So when they get captive, look,
being captive for a Chimp is probably a similar feeling
as to what it would be to be captive as a person. Right?
If you see a Chimp at the zoo and you're, um, you're in this big,
they're in this big containment and they all have these monkey bars and stuff
they could hang on,
but there's a bunch of people staring at them like all day long,
people are staring at you through glass and there's a ceiling.
There's a net over the top. So you can't go over the top and it's fences.
And you're just like. Every day is boring. Nothing happens.
Nothing happens every day. There's no lions. There's no, no fruit to go pick.
There's no places to go journey to, to explore like chimps travel around, man.
They don't just sit in one particular, 100 yard area for the rest of their life.
And it's not even a hundred yards. Right. If you go to the LA zoo,
you'll see how small that enclosure is. Yeah.
I went to the LA zoo once really high, really high, like on an edible.
Yeah. And uh, I wrote a piece on my website, uh, called, uh,
the animal prison. And I was like, cause it made me feel I could, uh,
cause you know, when you're really, super baked, you're sensitive to everything.
Yeah. But just, I, I recognize how,
instead of thinking about myself and thinking about, you know, oh,
I'm going to go to the zoo and see the monkeys.
I went there and I immediately felt sadness. I was like, oh no,
these poor creatures, like, they don't want to be here. Like what are we doing?
Like, we can't do this. I was thinking like, I gotta get outta here.
It's true. No, you're right. And it's very bizarre. Same thing with SeaWorld.
Same thing with all those places.
Oh see world's worst. Yeah. Cause they're as smart as us. If not smarter. Yeah.
We don't know. We don't even really know how smart orcas are. Right.
Because or dolphins. Cause we put them in these weird categories.
Like how much emails do they send? Um, do they make houses? No,
they must be stupid. But they have a cerebral cortex is 40% larger than ours.
We don't know how smart they are. They also, they communicate,
they have a weird, sophisticated language that we can't decipher.
We can't decipher it. We don't know what their language is.
They've been able to recognize specific accents so that, you know, there's like,
you know, like there's a Southern accent and a Cleveland accent.
There's a Chicago accent. Orcas have accents.
Like we can tell by the sound, oh this is an Orca from Alaska.
Or this is a Orca from Seattle. Yeah. It's crazy. It's nuts man.
The model we put them in a swimming pool.
A swimming pool.
So sad. How they're fin droops get depressed.
It's not that they get depressed. They don't use it. It atrophies.
It's like an arm that you don't pick anything up with. It just gets limp.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere.
But after December 1st they will only be available on Spotify,
but they will be free. That includes the video. The video will also be there.
It'll also be free. That's all we're asking you just go download Spotify much.
Buh-bye.